This morning I'd like you to imagine for a few moments that you'd be asked to write your life story for the watchtower.
Well, once you get over the shock, how would you go about doing that?
You probably noticed with many of the life experiences in the watchtower, usually the first paragraph has a defining moment in that person's life.
For example, Brother Eric Beverage who serves with us here in the United States, he started off this way.
I hereby sentence you the six months in prison. With those words ringing in my ears, I was taken off to prison in Manchester, England.
I had just faced one of the toughest tests of my young life. I had refused to be conscripted for military service.
Or another brother, brother Harley Harris who served as a missionary in Ecuador for many years.
He referred to the date September 2, 1950. He said, we're at a circuit assembly surrounded by a mob.
The mayor brought in the National Guard to protect us from the unruly crowd. Soldiers with drawn rifles and banets lined the street.
Amid insults, we walked to our cars and drove to the remaining sessions of the assembly.
It was there that I was baptized at the age of 14.
Or another brother, brother Don McLean, who serves on the Branch Committee in Australia, a brother originally from Canada, made this comment.
He started his life experience. There I sat, hour after hour, with one of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police by my side.
I was a prisoner. We were headed for the prison camp in Ontario, Canada.
And it seemed that the 1,500 mile train trip would never end.
Well, those certainly were defining moments in the lives of those brothers.
What about you? What is your defining moment?
Well, you might be thinking, no one put a gun to my head and said, decide now whether you serve Jehovah or not.
But for many of us, there have been defining moments in our lives. Perhaps it's the moment you decided to serve Jehovah.
Or the moment you decided to become a full-time servant. Perhaps it involved some decisions such as selling a home, selling a business,
deciding to move to Bethel, or perhaps leaving your country and going somewhere else.
Or it may have involved certain tests or trials, perhaps giving up opportunities for education or for lucrative job opportunities.
But whatever the case, I'm sure most of us have some defining moments in our lives that we remember, the decisions that were made that resulted in much good.
Let's think for a moment about the faithful man Abraham. What was the defining moment in his life?
Well, if you take your bibles and turn with me to Hebrews chapter 11, of course, here we see the Apostle Paul giving us an outline or history of many of the defining moments in the lives of faithful ones.
In Hebrews 11 verse 8, it says of Abraham.
By faith, Abraham, when he was called, obeyed by going out to a place he was the receivers in inheritance.
He went out, although not knowing where he was going.
Yes, that was a defining moment in the life of Abraham, wasn't it?
He decided to obey Jehovah, to leave and to travel to a distant country that he didn't really know about.
But was that all that was involved with Abraham receiving the reward?
No, let's read on a little further in verse 9.
There it says, by faith, he lived as a foreigner in the land of the promise as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the years with him, of the very same promise.
Now, this is not a defining moment, is it?
This is a course of faithfulness, day in, day out.
So what's the point? Well, in the case of Abraham, we remember that eventually he and his family crossed the Euphrates River and ended the promise land in the year 1943 BCE.
But he had to wait 25 years before his son Isaac was born, and then another 60 years before his grandsons, he saw in Jacob, were born.
And eventually he died after being in the promise land as a foreigner for about 100 years.
So what's the point?
Although there was a definite decision he made, a defining moment in his life, that was backed up as verse 9 says by his faithfulness, day in, day out, serving Jehovah.
So the lesson we learned from that is that it's not just the defining moments, the define who we are.
Those moments and those decisions need to be backed up by faithful service.
Let's be quite frank, many of the life experiences that we read in the watchtower may have a very exciting first paragraph.
Yes, they put a gun to my head, make your decision, will you die?
Would you be willing to die for Jehovah?
But then when you read the rest of the article, nothing really exciting happened in that person's life.
I'm sorry to say that includes my life experience as well.
Why?
Because the majority of our lives are not involved with defining moments, exciting things that are happening, rather they involve our faithfulness to Jehovah.
So we can't just rely upon these defining moments and say, well, I made this decision to serve Jehovah, I passed this test so everything is good.
No, we need to continue to back up those defining moments with faithful service.
Remember that in the scriptures there were many who had defining moments in their lives, they, for example, Solomon.
He had a defining moment, didn't he, when he prayed to Jehovah?
And he was praised for the fact that he asked for wisdom rather than wealth.
But that wasn't backed up by faithfulness.
Eventually, that defining moment in his life really wasn't as valuable as it could have been because of his lack of faithfulness.
And what about you, this is scary.
Were there some defining moments in his life?
Obviously, he decided to follow Jesus at one point.
And during that time when he faithfully followed Jesus, no doubt there were very exciting, interesting things that happen.
But again, those defining moments in his life proved to be of little value because of the lack of faithfulness on his part.
So that helps us to understand why the Apostle Paul says some very interesting points just before he started this list that he gives us in Hebrews chapter 11.
Let's turn to Hebrews chapter 10.
Hebrews chapter 10.
And verses 35 through 39.
Notice this is the point that we should gain from this lesson.
Paul says study in verse 35.
Therefore, do not throw away your boldness, which will be richly rewarded.
For you need endurance.
Now that reminds us of what Jesus said about the one who endured to the end will be saved.
So that after you've done the will of God, you may receive the fulfillment of the promise.
For yet a very little while and the one who is coming will arrive and will not delay.
But my righteous one will live by reason of faith.
And if he drinks back, I have no pleasure in him.
Now, we are not the sword who's drinking back to destruction, but the sword who have faith for the preserving of our lives.
What a very positive comment that is.
So when we think of our life experience, don't be disappointed if you don't have some spectacular things that you can mention as a defining moments.
Remember, the important thing is not just the decisions that we make along the way.
But the fact that we remain faithful to Jehovah, day in, day out.